---
layout: default
title: Tools
---
# CLEF 2026 SimpleText: Tools

---

## Relevant literature & tools
###  Task 1: Text Simplification
* Cutting-edge language models such as LLaMA3 and Mistral are at the forefront of this process.

* - LLaMA3: Known for its state-of-the-art capabilities in understanding and generating natural language, LLaMA3 excels in maintaining the semantic integrity of scientific texts while simplifying them for a wider audience.
* - Mistral: A highly efficient model designed for complex text manipulation, Mistral’s strengths lie in reducing verbosity while ensuring readability, making it an excellent tool for this task.
    
* These models use advanced fine-tuning techniques to adapt to scientific domains, ensuring clarity and precision in simplified outputs.


### Task 2: Controlled Creativity
Tools and libraries that specialise in this include:

* MIRAGE: A library that leverages advanced hallucination detection models to identify misleading or incorrect outputs generated by language models. This ensures that the explanations provided are accurate and reliable.
  - [https://github.com/bVendeville/MIRAGE](https://github.com/bVendeville/MIRAGE)
* Summeval: A robust evaluation framework used to assess the quality of generated summaries, which can be repurposed to verify the clarity of explanations for complex concepts.
* Q2: A model designed for quality evaluation of text generation, helping to ensure that identified concepts are accurately explained without introducing errors.
    
* These resources, combined with intelligent algorithms, ensure that users receive trustworthy and comprehensible explanations for even the most difficult scientific concepts.
